































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































In Cyberspy vs. Cyberspy, 
ChIna has the edge 

REUTERS/Rick Wilking

Hackers connected to the Chinese army have stolen terabytes 
of sensitive data from the United States and the attacks are multiplying.

By BRian gRoW and MaRk HoSEnBall 
ATLANTA, ApriL 14

AS AmeriCA ANd CHiNA grow more economically and financially 
intertwined, the two nations have also 
stepped up spying on each other. Today, 
most of that is done electronically, with 
computers rather than listening devices in 
chandeliers or human moles in tuxedos.  

And at the moment, many experts believe 
China may have  gained the upper hand. 

Though it is difficult to ascertain the true 

extent of America's own capabilities and 
activities in this arena, a series of secret 
diplomatic cables as well as interviews 
with experts suggest that when it comes to 
cyber-espionage, China has leaped ahead 

of the United States.  
 According to U.S. investigators, China 

has stolen terabytes of sensitive data -- 
from usernames and passwords for State 
department computers to designs for 
multi-billion dollar weapons systems. And 
Chinese hackers show no signs of letting 
up. "The attacks coming out of China are 
not only continuing, they are accelerating," 
says Alan paller, director of research at 
information-security training group SANS 
institute in Washington, dC. 

Secret U.S. State department cables, 

april 2011

speCIal report

“the attacks 
coming out of 

china are not only 
continuing, they are 

accelerating.” 



cyBER-ESpionagE apRil 2001

2

obtained by WikiLeaks and made available 
to reuters by a third party, trace systems 
breaches -- colorfully code-named 
"Byzantine Hades" by U.S. investigators -- 
to the Chinese military. An April 2009 cable 
even pinpoints the attacks to a specific unit of 
China's people's Liberation Army. 

privately, U.S. officials have long suspected 
that the Chinese government and in 
particular the military was behind the cyber-
attacks. What was never disclosed publicly, 
until now, was evidence. 

U.S. efforts to halt Byzantine Hades hacks 
are ongoing, according to four sources 
familiar with investigations. in the April 2009 
cable, officials in the State department's 
Cyber Threat Analysis division noted that 
several Chinese-registered Web sites were 
"involved in Byzantine Hades intrusion 
activity in 2006." 

The sites were registered in the city of 
Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province 
in central China, according to the cable. A 
person named Chen Xingpeng set up the 
sites using the "precise" postal code in 
Chengdu used by the people's Liberation 
Army Chengdu province First Technical 
reconnaissance Bureau (TrB), an electronic 
espionage unit of the Chinese military. "much 
of the intrusion activity traced to Chengdu is 
similar in tactics, techniques and procedures 
to (Byzantine Hades) activity attributed to 
other" electronic spying units of the people's 
Liberation Army, the cable says. 

reconnaissance bureaus are part of 
the people's Liberation Army's Third 
department, which oversees China's 
electronic eavesdropping, according to an 
October 2009 report by the U.S.-China 
economic and Security Commission, a panel 
created by Congress to monitor potential 
national security issues related to U.S- 
China relations. Staffed with linguists and 
technicians, the Third department monitors 
communications systems in China and 
abroad. At least six Technical reconnaissance 
Bureaus, including the Chengdu unit, "are 
likely focused on defense or exploitation of 
foreign networks," the commission report 
states. 

The precise relationship with the Chinese 
Army of suspected hacker Chen Xingpeng 
could not be immediately determined by 
reuters. A spokesman for the Chinese 
embassy in Washington did not respond to 
multiple requests for comment. The U.S. 
State department declined to comment. 

But the leaked cables and other U.S. 

Spear-phishing, step by step

Source: Thomson Reuters 

Reuters graphic/Stephen Culp

31/03/11

Cyber-spies study potential spear-phishing 
targets by combing previously purloined data 
and information on the Internet, including  
public documents, job descriptions, government 
and corporate organizational charts, and how 
the targets write and sign-off on emails.

Step 1: Web due diligence Step 2: Building the spear-phish

Attackers then craft an email, usually containing 
an attachment or a Web link, designed to make 
the target think the message is real and from an 
expected source. Attachments often relate to 
actual  events or contain useful information.

Step 3: “Exfiltrating” the data

After the link is clicked or the email’s attachment is opened, the malicious code is unleashed and begins 
to search for useful data, sometimes very specific documents such as product designs and strategic plans, 
as well as more email addresses, usernames and passwords to repeat the process. The data is sent 
“home” to a computer operated by hackers which control the code.

Hey, click here!
www.oops.com ?

TO
P S

EC
RE

T

kEEping TaBS:  Josh Mayeux, network defender, works at the air Force Space Command Network Operations 
& Security Center at peterson air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado July 20, 2010.   REUTERS/Rick 
Wilking 



cyBER-ESpionagE apRil 2001

3

government reports underscore how Chinese 
and other state-sponsored and private 
hackers have overwhelmed U.S. government 
computer networks. in the last five years, 
cyber-intrusions reported to the U.S. 
Computer emergency response Team, a unit 
of the department of Homeland Security, 
have increased more than 650 percent, from 
5,503 incidents in fiscal 2006 to 41,776 four 
years later, according to a march 16 report by 
the Government Accountability Office.  

 
THE BUSinESS oF Spying 
THe OFFiCiAL FiGUreS don't account 
for intrusions into commercial computer 
networks, which are part of an expanding 
cyber-espionage campaign attributed to 
China, according to current and former U.S. 
national security officials and computer-
security experts. 

in the last two years, dozens of U.S. 
companies in the technology, oil and gas and 
financial sectors have disclosed that their 
computer systems have been infiltrated. 

in January 2010, internet search giant 
Google announced it was the target of a 
sophisticated cyber-attack using malicious 
code dubbed "Aurora," which compromised 
the Gmail accounts of human rights activists 
and succeeded in accessing Google source 
code repositories.  

The company, and subsequent public 
reports, blamed the attack on the Chinese 
government. 

The Google attack "was certainly an 
escalation of Chinese network operations 
against the U.S.," says Joel Brenner, former 
counterintelligence chief for the Office 
of the director of National intelligence. 
"Thousands" of U.S. companies were 
targeted in the Aurora attacks, Brenner says 
-- far more than the estimated 34 companies 
publicly identified as targets so far -- a scale 
which Brenner says demonstrates China's 

"heavy-handed use of state espionage 
against economic targets." 

many firms whose business revolves 
around intellectual property -- tech firms, 
defense group companies, even Formula One 
teams -- complain that their systems are now 
under constant attack to extract proprietary 
information. Several have told reuters they 
believe the attacks come from China. 

Some security officials say firms doing 
business directly with Chinese state-linked 
companies -- or which enter fields in which 
they compete directly -- find themselves 
suffering a wall of hacking attempts almost 
immediately. 

The full scope of commercial computer 

intrusions is unknown. A study released 
by computer-security firm mcAfee and 
government consulting company SAiC on 
march 28 shows that more than half of some 
1,000 companies in the United States, Britain 
and other countries decided not to investigate 
a computer-security breach because of the 
cost. One in 10 companies will only report a 
security breach when legally obliged to do so, 
according to the study. 

"Simply put, corporations cannot afford 
negative publicity (about computer security 
breaches)," says Tom Kellermann, vice 
president of security awareness at Core 
Security Technologies and a contributor to 
the study. 

 
gonE pHiSHing 
WHAT iS KNOWN is the extent to which 
Chinese hackers use "spear-phishing" as 
their preferred tactic to get inside otherwise 
forbidden networks. Compromised email 
accounts are the easiest way to launch spear-
phish because the hackers can send the 
messages to entire contact lists. 

The tactic is so prevalent, and so 
successful, that "we have given up on the 
idea we can keep our networks pristine," says 
Stewart Baker, a former senior cyber-security 
official at the U.S. department of Homeland 
Security and National Security Agency. it's 
safer, government and private experts say, 
to assume the worst -- that any network is 
vulnerable. 

Two former national security officials 
involved in cyber-investigations told reuters 
that Chinese intelligence and military units, 
and affiliated private hacker groups, actively 
engage in "target development" for spear-
phish attacks by combing the internet 
for details about U.S. government and 
commercial employees' job descriptions, 
networks of associates, and even the way 
they sign their emails -- such as U.S. military 

ModERn WaRFaRE:  Medallions for (l-r) the U.S. air Force, air Force Space Command, air Force Cyber Command and he air Force Space Command Network Operations 
& Security Center (NOSC) are seen outside the NOSC at peterson air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado July 20, 2010.   REUTERS/Rick Wilking 

WoRRiEd:  Joel Brenner, former director of the 
counterintelligence for the Office of the Director of 
National intelligence and author of a forthcoming book 
on cyber-espionage titled “america the Vulnerable: 
New Technology and the Next Threat to National 
Security,” in his office in Washington, March 22, 2011.  
REUTERS/HyUngWon kang   



cyBER-ESpionagE apRil 2001

4

personnel's use of "V/r," which stands for 
"Very respectfully" or "Virtual regards." 

The spear-phish are "the dominant attack 
vector. They work. They're getting better. it's 
just hard to stop," says Gregory J. rattray, 
a partner at cyber-security consulting firm 
delta risk and a former director for cyber-
security on the National Security Council. 

Spear-phish are used in most Byzantine 
Hades intrusions, according to a review of 
State department cables by reuters. But 
Byzantine Hades is itself categorized into at 
least three specific parts known as "Byzantine 
Anchor," "Byzantine Candor," and "Byzantine 
Foothold." A source close to the matter says 
the sub-codenames refer to intrusions which 
use common tactics and malicious code to 
extract data.  

A State department cable made public 
by WikiLeaks last december highlights the 
severity of the spear-phish problem. "Since 
2002, (U.S. government) organizations have 
been targeted with social-engineering online 
attacks" which succeeded in "gaining access 
to hundreds of (U.S. government) and cleared 
defense contractor systems," the cable said. 
The emails were aimed at the U.S. Army, the 
departments of defense, State and energy, 
other government entities and commercial 
companies. 

Once inside the computer networks, the 
hackers install keystroke-logging software 
and "command-and-control" programs 
which allow them to direct the malicious code 
to seek out sensitive information. The cable 
says that at least some of the attacks in 2008 
originated from a Shanghai-based hacker 
group linked to the people's Liberation 

Army's Third department, which oversees 
intelligence-gathering from electronic 
communications.  

Between April and October 2008, hackers 
successfully stole "50 megabytes of email 
messages and attached documents, as 
well as a complete list of usernames and 
passwords from an unspecified (U.S. 
government) agency," the cable says. 

investigators say Byzantine Hades 
intrusions are part of a particularly virulent 
form of cyber-espionage known as an 
"advanced persistent threat." The malicious 
code embedded in attachments to spear-
phish emails is often "polymorphic" -- it 
changes form every time it runs -- and 
burrows deep into computer networks 
to avoid discovery. Hackers also conduct 
"quality-assurance" tests in advance of 
launching attacks to minimize the number 
of anti-virus programs which can detect it, 
experts say.  

As a result, cyber-security analysts say 
advanced persistent threats are often only 
identified after they penetrate computer 
networks and begin to send stolen data to 
the computer responsible for managing 
the attack. "You have to look for the 'phone 

home,'" says roger Nebel, managing director 
for cyber-security at defense Group inc., a 
consulting firm in Washington, dC. 

it was evidence of malicious code phoning 
home to a control server -- a computer that 
supervises the actions of code inside other 
computers -- that provided confirmation to 
U.S. cyber-sleuths that Chinese hackers were 
behind Byzantine Hades attacks, according 
to the April 2009 State department cable.  

As a case study, the cable cites a 10-month 
investigation by a group of computer experts 
at the University of Toronto which focused 
in part on cyber-intrusions aimed at Tibetan 
groups, including the office of the exiled 
dalai Lama in dharamsala, india. 

referencing the Canadian research, the 
cable notes that infected computers in the 
dalai Lama's office communicated with 
control servers previously used to attack 
Tibetan targets during the 2008 Olympics 
in Beijing. Two Web sites linked to the attack 
also communicated with the control server. 

 
TaRgETS dETailEd 
THe SAme SiTeS HAd also been involved in 
Byzantine Hades attacks on U.S. government 
computers in 2006, according to "sensitive 
reports" cited in the cable -- likely a 
euphemistic reference to secret intelligence 
reporting. 

The computer-snooping code that the 
intrusion unleashed was known as the 
Gh0stNet remote Access Tool (rAT). it "can 
capture keystrokes, take screen shots, install 
and change files, as well as record sound with 
a connected microphone and video with a 
connected webcam," according to the cable.  

Gh0st rAT succeeded in invading at least 
one State department computer. it "has 
been identified in incidents -- believed to 
be the work of (Byzantine Hades) actors -- 
affecting a locally employed staff member at 
the U.S. embassy in Tokyo, Japan," according 
to the cable.  

evidence that data was being sucked 
out of a target network by malicious code 
also appears to have led cyber-security 
investigators to a specific hacker, affiliated 
with the Chinese government, who was 
conducting cyber-espionage in the United 
States. A march, 2009 cable identifies him 

Find more Reuters special reports at 
our blog The Deep End here:
http://link.reuters.com/heq72q

the spear-phish are 
"the dominant attack 

vector. they work. 
they're getting 
better. it's just 
hard to stop." 

cyBER WaRRioRS:  a map is displayed on one of the screens at the air Force Space Command Network 
Operations & Security Center at peterson air Force Base in Colorado Springs, Colorado July 20, 2010.   
REUTERS/Rick Wilking 



cyBER-ESpionagE apRil 2001

5

as Yinan peng. The cable says that peng was 
believed to be the leader of a band of Chinese 
hackers who call themselves "Javaphile." 

peng did not respond to three emails 
seeking comment. 

The details of alleged Chinese military-
backed intrusions of U.S. government 
computers are discussed in a half dozen 
State department cables recounting intense 
global concern about China's aggressive use 

of cyber-espionage.  
in a private meeting of U.S., German, 

French, British and dutch officials held at 
ramstein Air Base in September 2008, 
German officials said such computer attacks 
targeted every corner of the German market, 
including "the military, the economy, science 
and technology, commercial interests, and 
research and development," and increase 
"before major negotiations involving German 
and Chinese interests," according to a cable 
from that year. 

French officials said at the meeting that 
they "believed Chinese actors had gained 
access to the computers of several high-
level French officials, activating microphones 
and Web cameras for the purpose of 
eavesdropping," the cable said.  

TESTing THE WaTERS 
THe LeAKed STATe depArTmeNT cables 
have surfaced as reuters has learned that 
the U.S. is engaged in quiet, proxy-led talks 
with China over cyber issues.  

Chronic computer breaches have become 
a major source of tension in U.S. relations 

Spear-phished: targeted attacks by country

Source: Messagelabs “The Nature of Cyber-Espionage,” March 2010 

Reuters graphic/Stephen Culp

01/04/11

Percentage of targeted attacks, 2009

In 2009, China was the source nation of more than one fourth of the world’s targeted email attacks.

0 5 10 15 20 25 30

Other

Russia

South Korea

Cameroon

Japan

Taiwan

U.S.

Romania

China28.2%

21.1%

13.8%

12.9%

4.0%

2.2%

0.9%

0.9%

4.2%

HackEd:  a cleaner sweeps the logo of Google China outside its company headquarters in Beijing, January 19, 2010.   REUTERS/alFREd Jin 



cyBER-ESpionagE apRil 2011

with China, which intensified after the major 
Google hack was disclosed in January 2010, 
according to U.S. officials involved in the 
talks. even before the Google hack, Chinese 
officials had recognized the problem as well. 

in mid-2009, representatives of the China 
institutes for Contemporary international 
relations, a nominally-independent research 
group affiliated with China's ministry of 
State Security, contacted James A. Lewis, a 
former U.S. diplomat now with the Center for 
Strategic and international Studies. 

Lewis said that in his first meeting with 
his Chinese counterparts, a representative 
of the China institutes asked: "Why does the 
Western press always blame China (for cyber-
attacks)?" Lewis says he replied: "Because 
it's true." 

There was no response to request for 
comment on the talks from the Chinese 
embassy in Washington.  

preliminary meetings at CSiS have 
blossomed into three formal meetings in 
Washington and Beijing over the last 14 
months. According to two participants, 
the talks continue to be marked by "a lot 
of suspicion." Attendees have focused on 
establishing a common understanding of 
cyber-related military, law enforcement 
and trade issues. Cyber-espionage isn't 

being discussed directly, according to one 
participant, because "the Chinese go rigid" 
when the subject is raised. 

One reason: for China, digital espionage 
is wrapped into larger concerns about 
how to keep China's economy, the world's 
second largest, growing. "They've identified 
innovation as crucial to future economic 
growth -- but they're not sure they can do 
it," says Lewis. "The easiest way to innovate 
is to plagiarize" by stealing U.S. intellectual 
property, he adds. 

There have been a few breakthroughs. 
U.S. and Chinese government officials from 
law enforcement, intelligence, military and 
diplomatic agencies have attended in the 
wings of each discussion. "The goal has been 
to get both sides on the same page," says 
Lewis. "We're building the groundwork for 
official discussions."  

A former senior national security official 
who has also attended the talks says, "Our 
reports go straight to the top policymakers" 
in the Obama administration. 

Chinese participants have sought to allay 
U.S. concerns about a Chinese cyber-attack on 
the U.S. financial system. With China owning 
more than $1.1 trillion in U.S. government 
debt, Lewis says China's representatives 
acknowledged destabilization of U.S. 

markets would, in effect, be an attack on 
China's economy, itself. 

despite the talks, suspected Chinese cyber-
espionage has hardly tapered off. documents 
reviewed by reuters show that CSiS itself 
recently was the target of a spear-phish 
containing malicious code with a suspected 
link to China.  

On march 1, an email sent from an address 
on an unofficial U.S. Armed Forces family 
welfare network called AFGimail was sent 
to Andrew Schwartz, chief spokesman for 
CSiS. Attached to the message was an excel 
spreadsheet labeled "Titan Global invitation 
List." 

An analysis conducted for reuters by a 
cyber-security expert who asked not to be 
identified shows the email may have been 
sent from a compromised AFGimail email 
server. The excel spreadsheet, if opened, 
installs malicious code which searches 
for documents on the victim's computer. 
The code then communicates to a Web-
site hosting company in Orange County, 
California that has additional sites in China. 

 (reporting by Brian Grow in Atlanta and 
mark Hosenball in Washington; additional 
reporting by peter Apps in London; editing 

by Jim impoco and Claudia parsons) 

coVER pHoTo: Sgt James Ortiz looks over a rack in the server room at the air Force Space Command Network Operations & Security Center at peterson air Force Base in 
Colorado Springs, Colorado July 20, 2010.   REUTERS/Rick Wilking 

© Thomson reuters 2011. all rights reserved. 47001073 0310
republication or redistribution of Thomson reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is 
prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson reuters. ‘Thomson reuters’ and the Thomson 
reuters logo are registered trademarks and trademarks of Thomson reuters and its affiliated companies.

FOr mOre iNFOrmATiON CONTACT:

Jim impoco,  
EntErprisE Editor, AmEricAs 
+1 646 223 8923 
jim.impoco@thomsonreuters.com

BriAn grow  
+1 202 450 9219 
brian.grow@thomsonreuters.com

mArk hosEnBAll
+1 202 354 5821 
mark.hosenball@thomsonreuters.com

cHinESE gUaRdS: Honour guards stand in a line before an official welcoming ceremony 
inside the Great Hall of the people in Beijing, February 25, 2010.  REUTERS/JaSon lEE


